### **QUESTIONS:**
---

**1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**

Learning to code has been like being granted access to a secret world, one that had previously been invisible to my eyes. Minus a brief experience editing the HTML of my Neopet's homepage in the third grade, programming is a recent love. I  feel thrilled with the challenge and newness of it. This winter, I began with CodeAcademy as a way to get my feet wet, and felt encouraged by the fact that I was able to complete courses in HTML/CSS and Javascript. I remember attempting the same courses a couple years previously and not being able to progress much past the beginning, but something recently in me has changed. I feel a determination and patience to learn what needs to be done that I've never felt before. Wanting to build my own personal site as practice and frustrated by how I did not understand more syntax from CodeAcademy, I moved onto Ryan Bonhardt's Udemy Course "Build Your First Website in 1 Week." This past Janunary, I first learned about Ada when reading one of Laurence Bradford's Learn to Code With Me articles, and have been working on the Jumpstart program in order to prepare. Interested in primarily web and front-end development, I have also just begun Rob Percival's "The Complete Web Developer Course: Build 14 Websites." 

I've never considered myself a Computer Science or math-oriented person. Thinking of myself as more capable of analyzing literature than writing an algorithm, it’s been a revelation to realize that these abilities are not necessarily exclusive. It’s only recently that I had enough confidence in myself to try to teach myself coding, to realize that just because I wasn’t the kid building a computer in their at garage in seventh grade, doesn’t mean that I’m any less capable of learning this skill. It’s taken years of experience and growth to have the confidence to tell myself, “You’re a smart, capable woman. If you take the time to understand this and put your mind to it, you can.” Every coding accomplishment, each grasping of a concept that I initially thought was too complex, has been empowering.  

A perpetual traveler, I've recently found myself looking for something beyond the thrill of a new destination. I love that coding offers a way to engage my mind both intellectually and creatively. Beyond that, it appeals to me because it's genuinely an international language, allowing people from all around the world to collaborate with each other. While L. L. Zamenhof dreamt of Esperanto as a way for overcoming the "national indifference of mankind," coding has the genuine ability to transcend those barriers. The more I've read about it and personally experienced programming, I've discovered it has the potential to combine the elation of total focus I get from a writing project with the social collaboration of working with other people.I can't help but smile as I read through the Ada blog and read interviews with past participants about their experiences and how their lives have been transformed by gaining the software development skills Ada teaches. 

**2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?**

I would like to be the owner and founder of my own business, with a genuine social entrepreneurial focus. I'm hesistant to say in which specific technological field, as changes and advancements occur so rapidly that it's difficul to confidently say what will be in demand five years from now. Traveling has taught me that around every corner, with every new discussion and meeting of a new person, offers a new opportunity and idea. It’s fascinating to think about how technology can help to improve people's lives, both presently and in the futrue. For example, just a few days ago, while volunteering at a surf/yoga camp in Costa Rica, I was speaking with a solar company owner I met on the street. I learned that Costa Rica's electricity runs nearly exclusively on renewable energy, and there's a great demand for creating partnerships with local Costa Rican businesses to switch to solar power. This is something I would have never been aware of if I had not been here on the ground, talking with the people around me. 

I’m particularly fascinated by the concept of Digital Nomads (DN), and the communities they create for themselves abroad. I happened to briefly run into a group of DNs in Vietnam three years ago, and it blew my mind the concept of their lives, individual entrepreneurs that leverage technology in order to work remotely and live independent nomadic lives. It’s appealing, the idea of continuing to work and live abroad, which I’ve currently been doing for nearly the past four years since graduating from college in 2013, while also having the focus of operating my own online business. 

Something I’ve always valued, and have sought, is a sense of community. This is one reason, among others, that I prefer to “slow travel,” living in a place abroad for at least a month at a time, getting to know the local area’s ways and people. I think it would be rewarding I could recreate that sense of community for others living abroad in a physical space, creating a haven and a safe place for those solo-entrepreneurs that allows them to have a home away from home.

**3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program**

Diversity, and the celebration of it, has always been something important to me. It's one of the reasons I wanted to attend my social justice-oriented alma mater, Wesleyan University, and chose to live abroad. At the same time, I recognize the inherent luxury and priviledge of this lifestyle. My own forms of identity that shape and mean so much to me on a personal-level, growing up extremely poor in a single-parent household, having a mentally-unstable parent, being financially independent since 16, supporting myself through college, etc. are not things that are not inherently obvious about myself. They do not usually come up in daily conversation unless I choose for them to. This aspect of my identity therefore in a certain way a priviledge as I can hide it, if I choose to do so. As Sian Ferguson wrote in "Privilege 101: A Quick and Dirty Guide," privilege and oppression intersect — but they don’t negate one another. It's been both invigorating and nerve-inducing to read watch the articles and videos in the Social Justice section of Ada's Jumpstart, but as someone said in one of the Seattle Times interviews, if I'm not uncomfortable with the conversation, I'm not learning.  

Living and traveling in different countries than my native one, allows me to have multi-cultural experiences, sometimes wonderful ones and sometimes not. I will never forget, while working in China, how a potential client, a young man, explicity said he did not want to meet with me because I was a woman. My female Chinese co-worker present at the meeting had simply laughed. Looking back on it, I realize perhaps her reaction had been simply due to the uncomfortableness of the situation, but in that moment I felt betrayed. I was frozen with shock. No one up until that moment in my life had so blatantly expressed my unsuitability due to my gender. I _still_ wish I had said something, rather than simply keeping my mouth shut and concluding the meeting. 

I recognize that there will be challenges in working the technology field, not just due to the technical challenges, but also because of others perception of me due to my gender (thought not nearly as much as others as a straight, white, cisgender female). This is why Ada's emphasis on inclusivity is so valuable to me. I  want to join Ada's cohort of strong, intelligent women from ALL different backgrounds. Through working and learning together, we can gather strength from each other, support one another, realize our worth, learn more about intersectionality, so that next time, I don't keep my mouth shut.

**4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**

Everyone’s life is like an orchestral score, with reoccurring sonatas and themes that reoccur in alternating forms. My theme, like so many others, is a contest between passion and financial reward. Three days after I graduated from my college, the first of June 2013, I hopped on a plane and flew from New York to China to begin my brand new job. As someone who barely spoke Chinese, with a scattering of Rosetta lessons crammed in between classwork and graduating, it was a bold move. 

I’d always known that I wanted to live and work abroad after graduating. Originally with the plan to teach English in Thailand, I had accepted the offer to work for Xueer Education as a college counselor the spring of my senior year. I took on the role of mentor, teacher and friend to a group of bright Chinese students wishing to university the US and UK. It seemed like the right move at the time. It offered me the chance for more professional growth then I would have had teaching English in Thailand, including the chance to do some marketing and working under a social entrepreneurship flagship. 

What I did not expect was the crippling sense of isolation I felt living in China and lack of work-life balance I experienced my first 9 months there. Over the course of nearly two years, as I gained more seniority within the company and a change in management, this did improve, but when I first arrived it was extremely difficult. Despite a contractual two days off from working per week, we were expected to work in the office 7 days a week and usually from the morning until 10:30 pm at night. I lived for a total of 18 months in a “small” city in China, Ningbo, a population of five million three hours outside of Shanghai. Despite the bustling international metropolis of Shanghai being a mere few hours away, practically no one spoke English in Ningbo. With an intensive workload of roughly 60 hours a week there was hardly any time to practice the Chinese I so desperately wanted to learn, and I felt miserable in my inability to connect and communicate with those around me. I constantly thought about jumping on a plane and leaving the situation, but I felt a combination of duty to my students, honor-bound to fulfill my contract, and, to be perfectly honest, a desire for the commission granted after completing the application season, which would allow me to finance the traveling I so desperately wanted. 

Ultimately I stayed for nearly two years, growing and learning a lot tremendously, but never ultimately happy until perhaps the final three months, when I found a great group of friends and came to appreciate the levels at which my student’s writing and personal strengths had improved. I vowed after that experience, that I would never put myself into the position again where I was doing something primarily inspired by financial reasons, but instead to live in the places I desire and to do what I wish to do. I'm still not certain whether I made the right decision to stay with that job rather than go, but I also can't regret it as it led me to where I am today, having grown and learned tremendously, feeling grateful for the pollution-free blue skies around me.  





